PBR stands for physically based rendering,
it is about the whole rendering environment and not just the shakers
but physically based shading is at its very core
PBR is the standard for realistic shading across platforms,
the specific implementations differ, but generally they can be used in exchange
opposed to PBR, there's also non photorealistic rendering,
or NPR NPR comes in several different shapes and forms and
some of it can be abstracted from the PBR workflow.
So I want to focus on PBR for this course,
like the name implies physically based rendering is
an attempt to accurately depict a rendered scene
but describing it through its physical properties and
simulating real physical interactions for the shader.
That means describing a material by the way it interacts with light.
The great thing about PBR is that it
breaks down the shader into objective parameters,
which means that it will generally look
accurate from all different lighting scenarios,
generally what a material looks like is defined by its interaction with
light and there are different types of interactions that can be described with
those physical properties and those can then be given to a shader
that translates the material for the render engine to use in blender.
That shader is the Principal B S D F,
which is used as the standard shader for surfaces and has a lot of input parameters.
Every one of these parameters has its own
importance to the material and changing only one
of them at a time can have a drastic impact on the shader as a whole.
Instead of the Principal B S D F,
you can also build a shader manually out of the individual shader notes.
But for this course we are sticking to the principle be sdf
as it is already the best choice for most regular PBR based setups
for a perfect realism.
You theoretically want to have accurate maps
for each individual one of these channels
as real services generally have a combination
of all different interactions with light however,
is huddled, they may be,
but usually it is enough to focus
on the most characteristic properties of a material
to make it look convincing and approximate the rest with constant values
depending on the level of stylization you want a more uniform appearance,
can even be what you're looking for for the example seen I went with more
stylized PBR to simplify some of its complexity but the principle stays the same.
One thing about the render engines for cycles as it uses True.
Raytracing for rendering
the PBR map simply influence how the simulated raise propagate through the scene.
E V, however,
has to approximate most of these light interactions using different techniques to
fake the same look and in most cases that works really well.
The similarity of the result enables a powerful workflow
with Evie for a preview and cycles for rendering.
I will not go into the physical background of these light interactions
but let me quickly go over the different parameters in general,
we will go over how to generate the different PBR
maps in a procedural workflow and the following videos.
The base colour is like the name suggests the
main color map that the shader is based on.
It describes the color of the diffused
metallic or trance missive light interaction,
ideally the texture map used here should contain no
light information like shadows and highlights at all,
making it what is called an albedo map.
Then all the shading comes from the actual geometry
and light sources in the three D scene.
If however,
the geometry is lacking the relevant amount of
detail to produce this light information while rendering,
which is the case most of the time,
it can be useful to include some amount of lighting in the base color.
Already a color map that includes some lighting information
like shadows and ambient occlusion is called a diffuse map
and it helps to add realism to objects with a low poly count.
When highly detailed displacement is not an option
in this example,
you can see how the diffuse map adds more depth
decreases that are not showing on a geometrical level.
So you have to make the conscious decision whether or not you want
to include lighting information into the base color map with procedural sharing.
It is more straightforward to create an orbital
map as the lighting information comes with the rendering
from photographs. On the other hand, it has to be carefully extracted or avoided
while we are on the topic, I want to also talk about the shadow displacement
share,
displacement is not part of the principal gsdf itself
but can be accessed through the displacement socket and
the material output node cycles supports the option to
displace the mesh on a shader level When rendering
that way,
you can add additional geometric detail from within the share editor
using a displacement map generated just like the other PBR maps.
What this displacement does is exactly the same as the displaced modifier.
Only here you can use the shader notes to drive how the matches displaced.
That can be extremely useful to create highly realistic surface
detail and also general procedural shapes based on the shader.
However, to be effective, the mesh has to be highly subdivided,
which drastically increases memory usage in render time
and it is only available using cycles Currently,
as you can see,
the socket accepts a vector is the type which means that you
can technically displace any point on the mesh in any direction,
allowing you to effectively change the complete shape
of the geometry from within the shader.
This however,
has besides from looking very fancy only rather few
applications and it's quite advanced and difficult to control.
So for the scope of this course,
we're going to focus on the single dimensional displacement using a height map
and maybe at the end we can throw in vector displacement as a bonus,
let's move on to the next inputs of the principal BcF.
Subsurface scattering describes light penetrating the
surface and being sketched beneath it,
creating a glow where the light hits.
Subsurface scattering can be very crucial for different material types like
for example skin and add more depth and life to materials.
But this type of light interaction depends highly on the geometry of the mesh
and has to be simulated with a lot of race to be accurate,
which creates a lot of noise because
of that subsurface scattering only produces accurate results
using cycles and has to be faked when using Evie to work in real time.
There are three maps to control the subsurface scattering in the principal psd. F.
The subsurface input simply blends between the simple diffuse
and the subsurface scattered shading as the base shader.
They both also use separate base colour maps for the subsurface scattering.
This can be plugged into the subsurface color socket.
The 3rd map is the subsurface Radius, which determines the distance,
the light is scattered underneath the surface and
thus changes the softness of the subsurface effect.
This input accepts a vector which makes it possible to tint the
scattered light by the finding a different scattering length per RGb channel.
The shorter this radius input, the more it converges to the diffused trading.
There are also different algorithms that can be chosen
to simulate the propagation of the scattered light.
The metallic input blends between a base shader that
is using the fuse and reflective light interaction.
Those behave fundamentally different.
So usually it is a good idea to map the parameters value to either one or zero
depending on the class of the material and
only use values in between to transition between them
because they behave so differently.
The metallic input influences the behavior of the whole shader.
A lot of these parameters only influence the non metallic part of the shader.
So for the showcases here, I will focus on other materials.
The speculator input controls the reflectivity of the surface.
This reflection happens on top of the base shader
and its intensity depends on the viewing angle.
Also it is not based on the base color unlike the metallic reflection,
but it can be optionally tinted using the speculative parameter
usually for a PBR shader.
Keeping it on 0.5 yields good results as all real
materials have a certain amount of reflection to some capacity.
The parameter you should mainly focus on
to control the reflection is the roughness.
The roughness parameter controls exactly what the name implies.
It is a measure of the roughness of the surface on a microscopic level and it is
used to simplify the surface detail so that not
every microscopic little bump has to be described,
but the roughness of the surface as a whole.
The nuances in this map at a lot of character to a material
and getting it right is one of the keys to a convincing PBR shader
and I Satrapi is another parameter that gives
information about the microscopic detail of the surface.
An anisotropy reflection occurs in another part
of the surface is structured with a preferred
direction that results in the reflection being wrapped
around the geometry depending on that direction.
The most prominent example of the use of this effect is brushed metal.
The rotation of this preferred direction can also be tweaked with a
parameter and the fact that this preferred direction has to be wrapped
around a three D surface creates a poll where the directions run
together the way this is oriented can be accessed using the tangent input
sheen is in effect to add,
I highlight depending on the angle of the surface that can
be used to create more fuzzy looking materials like cloth.
This effect can also be tinted by the base color
clear code adds an additional layer of reflection on top of the shader.
Usually this is used for services like car paint that have a glossy finish,
but the roughness of the clear coat layer is fully adjustable as well.
The transmission parameter controls how much light passes
through the object to create glass like materials.
How blurry this transmission is is controlled by both
the surface roughness of the overall shader and additionally,
the dedicated transmission roughness.
The I. O. R. Parameter also impacts the transmission
I. O. R.
Stands for index of refraction and it is another intrinsic material
property that tells the refraction of the light when it's transmitted,
The Emission Map is a simple emission effect that is
added on top of the shader to create a glow.
The fact that it is added means that an emission of zero or black adds nothing.
The input here is a single color input, but for highly a missive materials,
the values can also surpass the range of 0-1.
The alpha input is a parameter to control the
opacity of the surface without influencing the shedding itself,
but rather blending the shaded surface with the background as a whole.
The normal input takes into account the surface
detail that falls in between the microscopic scale
where it can be translated into roughness and
a large scale where it is geometrically significant,
it directly controls the normal direction of the surface and can this way add
visual detail to the shader without the need of a highly subdivided mesh,
like it is the case with displacement.
The normals of the clear coat layer can be controlled
separately to keep surface detail while adding a smooth finish